Okay, the tape recorder is on.
Where do we start?
It amazes me that you are, I think, probably the best-selling author in the United States.
Anyone that sells more than you, I'd be surprised.
There isn't in the past few years.
Stu Apobal was saying a little bit earlier that Bantam shipped seven million books in the past year.
And yet, for some reason, you aren't reviewed, are you?
No.
Could you first tell me why you think that is?
Well, I think there's a kind of a prejudice against stories about the West.
I think there was a lot of bad writing about the West for a long time.
And as a result, I think that that's been the basic trouble.
But it doesn't disturb me the least, because I write for readers.
And if they review them, fine.
If they don't, that's fine, too.
But I have several million readers out there who seem happy.
And one reason I enjoy making trips like this is because I usually have some autograph sessions.
And when I do, I get a chance to talk to them and get feedback.
Would you say that you write a genre?
Are you a genre writer?
No, I don't really think I am.
Because when I first began to write, I wrote short stories.
And I wrote everything.
All kinds of short stories.
anything you can imagine.
And I fell into the writing about the frontier largely because I wrote a short story called The Gift of Cochise that was published by Kuyers.
And one of the editors at Fawcett saw it and asked me to do a novel based on a short story about 1972.
And I did, and everybody wanted the story of the frontier from it after that.
So my story started in England in 1600, and come over here.
England, Ireland, Scotland, places like that.
And I had one story that it didn't actually start right here in Boston, but the first 80 pages that would take place in this vicinity, the Warrior's Path.
It used to be an Indian trail that ran from Chattanooga, Tennessee, up to this vicinity.
And the Iroquois Indians used to leave here and go down there to fight the Cherokees.
And the Cherokees used to come back up here to fight the Uroquois.
But that trail was probably a couple thousand years old for any white man ever sold this country.
Your appeal certainly goes far beyond our shores.
It's a worldwide appeal.
You sell books in how many languages?
Nineteen.
Nineteen languages.
What does this say about the Western?
Well, it has a vast appeal, obviously.
It has a vast appeal to a lot of people.
I think part of it is probably the man on the horseback thing, which they've always been a romantic figure.
But there's much else than that.
The whole idea of the American West has appealed to people all over the world.
And whenever I go anywhere, they all want to hear stories about it, you know, and ask me questions about it.
What are they most interested in?
The myths?
You said the romantic things.
Well, the West was a romantic period, you know, an exciting period.
Romance is kind of hard to define, but it was a period when a lot of things were happening, a lot of what we call adventure.
Adventure's just a romantic name for trouble, that's all it is.
A lot of things were happening over here, but exciting things, a rather normal one.
So people got very intrigued by it, and also by the idea that the Western man was always an individual.
He didn't work as a team, but very rarely.
He was on his own.
Not a loner necessarily.
Not necessarily a loner, but on his own and doing things.
And when he wanted to, when he got fed up, he just got in his horse and rode off into the sunset or wherever and left everything behind.
And this is sort of an appeal to people too.
But it's very hard to pin down the exact reason why the Western has become so popular.
How about your personal appeal?
Do you have any insight on that?
The only thing is that
I think they have come to realize that I write an authentic story.
That I write a story based on truth.
And when they read my stories, they can say, yes, this is how it was.
I write my stories actually for a man of the period I'm writing about.
He's always in the back of my mind.
And I keep thinking, well, if he was here to read this story, what would he think about it?
And I try to write for him.
So this character has actually come alive for you.
That's right.
That's right, they do, and I try to put my readers in the story, and a lot of them comment on that fact, and they feel that I do.
I like to have them smell the smells, and taste the taste, and hear the sounds, and put them right there in the thing.
I had another question.
You do a tremendous amount of research.
Yes.
Could you give me some idea of the research
Well, I cover the field.
I do research in a lot of diaries and journals.
And contrary to what a lot of them may think, we don't have to guess what happened.
We know.
Because there were people there at the time writing it all down.
And there are a lot of journals available.
And I have readers sending them to me every once in a while their grandparents or great-grandparents had.
And a lot of them are in libraries or historical societies.
Then nearly every one of those towns had a small town newspaper, sometimes two.
And they would publish the stories of what was happening at the time.
Some very funny stories about it because the only way they could make money was by circulation, you know.
But it wasn't much made from ads.
And the circulation dropped off, they were in trouble.
So suppose you have a newspaper and I have one.
We'd start a fight.
We might like each other and drink together,
We'd start a fight, and fight back and forth in the editorial.
And the guy's the body of paper to read what was going on, you know.
And then you get sick.
So I would go over and write your, and then come back and write an answer to it, you know.
Because we had to keep the fight going for circulation.
If this era was so well documented, as you point out, how do you explain the mythology?
What you point out is false.
Nobody goes to documentation.
I mean, this mythology started almost
Yes, it did.
It did.
He started building and a lot of it isn't false.
A lot of it is true, but a lot of it is exaggerated.
Now the role of the gunfighter in the West has been much exaggerated.
I don't mean to say he wasn't there.
He was.
He was very definitely there.
But the gunfights mostly took place on the wrong side of the tracks, on the other side of town.
The red light district are out on the plains someplace on the range.
There were lots of people there who went to church on Sunday and sent the kids to school and raised their families just like we do now.
But the gunfighter wasn't really as common in this period as... He was common, but I mean, he didn't occupy any position of honor or anything like that.
Some of them were very respected men, but they were respected for other reasons than that.
Generally speaking, I think you spoke it out in the 16th Renaissance debut, that
On the whole, this is a pretty tough lot of people.
It was.
Civil War vets.
I mean, they're not likely to be intimidated by some crackpot coming into town and terrorizing them.
They weren't.
They weren't intimidated.
Let me give you some examples.
Well, the Jesse James gang, who were a tough bunch, they decided to raid Northfield, Minnesota.
Now, this wasn't what was usually considered a western town.
It was in Minnesota, away from the cattle driving west and everything.
They rode in there and got shot to pieces by a bunch of farmers and businessmen.
What you have to realize is that all these people grew up using guns.
They grew up hunting.
In many cases, if they didn't shoot meat to the table, they didn't have it.
They didn't eat.
Annie Oakley, the famous woman, rifle shot, you know.
That's the way she began.
She began hunting meat for her own family and found out she could make more money that way by hunting birds and whatnot to the market.
She was a terrific shot.
Marvelous shot.
That's not exaggerating.
Oh, no.
That's not exaggeration.
She was marvelous.
This Wild West show came around with Frank Butler, you know, who was a great pistol shot.
And he was giving exhibitions.
And in each town, to increase the excitement, he would take on the local rifle or pistol champion.
And, of course, he had no trouble beating him.
And he openly shot circles around.
So he married her.
He couldn't have anybody better than he was around.
I suppose so many of the myths have been born into the ground.
But in the research, do you ever come up with some really new stories and excitement that could have been myths, but maybe were overlooked?
Oh, yes.
There's a lot of them, for instance.
There's a lot of them.
Well, I just finished writing a story in Buckskin Run about two Indian tribes were having a fight over a hot spring in Colorado, Pagosa Springs.
But the Navajos and the Utes were fighting over it.
And they decided, finally, rather than go to war, they'd pick a champion and let them fight it out and go with that decision.
So the Navajos picked a great big husky young warrior who was a noted fighting man, and the youth picked a white man who was a adopted member of the tribe, Colonel Albert H. Pfeiffer, and he fought the Navajo and beat him.
And there are many great stories.
Stories come out of the woodwork every time you turn around.
It's a new story and a different story.
What's the woodwork for you?
I mean, you're doing research.
I'm doing research in the files, bold newspapers, and diaries, things like that.
And people all know about Wild Bill Hickok and John Wesley Harden and some of those.
But there are many, many other fellows who were just as famous in their time.
And others who weren't famous at all who were just as good with guns.
And they grew up using them.
And they didn't fool around.
Well, we had a case...
not too long ago, out in Colorado, where this was several years ago, six, seven years ago, actually.
A motorcycle gang was going to take over a small town out there.
And the word got around if they were going to, so eight or 10 of these fellows with their rifles and pistols went out to see them and suggested that unless they wanted to be buried on the spot, they should keep on going.
This is the type of thing that we're talking about.
Yeah.
Obviously, you write tremendously entertaining books.
audience that is beyond calculation.
Are you writing basically for entertainment or is there a hidden purpose here?
No, I'm writing for entertainment.
I'm a storyteller.
First, last of the moment, I'm a storyteller.
I think that anybody writes for a purpose or sell a bill of goods is making a mistake.
And we have talked, there's been a lot of talk recently about the decline of the novel and where are the novelists going.
The novelists are going down the drain because they've forgotten their storyteller.
They're trying to write political facts or advance some philosophical argument.
What a writer should do is write a good, entertaining story.
There is no way to keep what you believe out of the story.
It's going to come in there, but it's going to come in naturally.
It's going to come in naturally and easily, and if you try to direct it or make propaganda out of it, you're going to fail in both ways, both with propaganda and with an entertaining story.
The thing to do is tell your story.
What do you believe will come out?
Obviously you're trying to set the record straight, though, on this particular period.
Yes, I'm trying to do that, and I'm trying to pass history on.
See, there are millions of people out there who don't have the chance to do the research that I do.
They're curious about the stories.
They'd like to know the stories.
They'd like to hear them, but they don't have a chance.
I don't know how to order a date for it, but I do.
I'm on the business side of this, so I go get the stories, and I tell them
You've, according to the things I've read, you've had an unbelievable number of different lives, professions, jobs.
Well, I left home and I had to make a living.
And it was a very rough time.
That's right.
How old are you now?
I don't mention, don't tell anybody.
I've been around for years.
I was in World War II, so that gives you an idea.
But I don't for philosophical reasons.
I just don't believe anybody should ever tell their age, or any time.
Why is that?
Because it's the wrong way to judge people.
Okay.
Winston Churchill, if he died when he was 60, he'd have been a footnote in English history.
And on the other hand, William Pitt was Chancellor of England when he was in his 20s.
Napoleon had won his greatest Italian campaign when he was 26 years old.
He was through when he was 40.
And Stephen Crane died when he was 29, too.
Of course.
Of course, you can't, there's no way of judging a man at all.
And I think age should be left out of consideration.
That's a good point.
But anyway, you were making a point, too, about the various endeavors and how they all came back.
I had to make a living.
I was 15 years old.
I was as tall as I am now.
I weighed 155, 160 pounds while I left home.
And I passed as 22.
for the first few years, and then I passed to 24.
Wow.
Until I was 24.
But so consequently, you're asking ages.
A lot of people come up and say, I'm this old, that old, and they're judging, but they knew in the past.
And the ages are all wrong.
But anyway, the jobs that I got were the jobs that were available at the time.
And I've only mentioned a few of them.
Those first few years were very, very rough.
You were on your own, too, I mean.
I was on my own.
It was bad times.
I missed a lot of meals.
I was hungry a lot.
I slept in... Are you still around North Dakota?
No, no.
I left North Dakota, and my first job, I believe in there, was in Texas.
Skinning dead cattle out in the Panhandle.
Cattle had been dead for a while because we could save their hides, and the fellow I was working with was doing that.
He was a man who'd been raised as an Indian.
Is this about where the appreciation for this?
No, I appreciate it long before that.
I wanted to tell stories at the time I was big enough to walk, and my great-grandfather was killing the scalp of the Indians, and I grew up on Indian stories, and stories of fighting and the frontier.
I had a brother who was on the Mexican border down in 1916, that border from Mexican Scare, Pancho Villa, and whatnot was around.
So I acquired an awful lot of background that really intended to.
I intended to write about other things.
I was going to write, but not about the West.
I knew it, and it was really too close to home.
And at the time, I was thinking about other things.
Some of the first stuff I wrote was about boxing.
I used to fight a little bit.
I read that.
11 fights?
No, I had 59 fights, and I lost five.
What weight class?
I started as a middleweight and what most of my classes lie heavyweight.
Was it at least professional place?
Yes.
Did you go on to Louis L'Amour?
I had other names.
Did you give me a couple of them?
No.
Gotta get a scoop here someplace.
No, because in the first place, none of them became well known.
Nobody knew how I was.
In those days, people think there's boxing now.
Where were you fighting?
What states?
All over the states and some abroad.
I fought my toughest, longest fight was fought over the Battle for Bamborneo.
Were you good?
Yes, if you don't mind my saying.
So I was.
The only fights I lost, I wasn't eating regularly.
And I took them to make them money.
What does it take to be a good fighter?
It's beyond the obvious.
First place, you've got to be hungry.
You've got to want to win.
You've got to want to win very badly.
And I was hungry and I wanted to win.
And then I had been boxing since I was almost big enough to walk.
My father had boxed some.
I had two older brothers who had boxed some.
And when I began to manifest an interest in it, my dad took me down to St.
Paul, Minnesota.
And for two or three times a week, for six months, I was in the gymnasium with Mike Gibbons.
Mike was called the unproud middleweight champion of the world.
His brother Tommy fought Dempsey and Tony and Carpentier and all those people.
I had learned from him, so the time I fought my first professional fight, I had a skill beyond the average amateur.
Although, some of the first fights I fought were just pick up fights around the country.
I'd go to a small town, be working there, and they'd have some local guy who thought he was a fighter, and they'd arrange a fight, and sometimes one or take all, usually.
This is basically what we call club fighting today.
Something similar, yeah.
Did you ever think that you could go at it?
I thought very seriously about it one time.
I thought very seriously at one time, and there's one difficulty with being a fighter, which you see shown all the time.
A fighter who is really a fighter never believes he can't win.
That's the trouble with Muhammad Ali.
Well, he keeps coming back.
You can't get the idea out of your head that you can't win.
That's right.
But of course, in the days I'm talking about, there were fighters.
Not like these guys now.
Do you have any favorites?
Do you still follow boxing?
I follow boxing.
I don't think any of these guys can fight now.
For several reasons.
There aren't enough fighters.
You don't get enough experience.
See, in the times I'm talking, take Los Angeles, for example, just as an example.
I'm not rambling on this for a purpose.
I'm wondering what you bring, what lessons you learn as a writer from this kind of
Well, I learned, I'll sidetrack myself here just for a minute.
To say the major lesson I learned from fighting was to get up after you get knocked down and keep on fighting because you win.
And that's what a rider has to do.
You get a lot of rejections, you still keep getting up, eventually you win.
But in those days, for example, in Los Angeles, there's one club in Los Angeles now holding fights every week.
In those days it was six.
And in this area,
There were some clubs going all the time.
In New York, there must have been 100 open fights.
You'd go into a gymnasium in those days, and then they all were 70 or 80 fighters before working out.
To get anywhere, you had to fight anywhere from 60 to 80 fights where you got a chance to get a shot at the championship, and you were the best.
I knocked out 34 when I fought.
And I could go pretty good.
But I wanted to write more than anything else in the world.
And then right at the critical time when I might have settled down to serious fighting, there wasn't any money in the boxing game.
The money went out of it.
The MC had gone out, you know, and
There wasn't a pocket or heavyweight champion or not, and usually boxing is a good deal by the heavyweight champion.
If you have a good active champion, the rest of the divisions are active too.
It's changed a little bit now.
Oh, now it's changed because you have the great television.
You can make an enormous lot of money.
Your first book was what?
Well, my first book is quite a story about that.
I usually tell people my first book was published in 1953, written in 1952.
It isn't really true.
Our first book was written in 1950.
It was published in England, of all places.
I never saw a copy of it for 16 years.
Okay, what was the title?
Westward the Tide.
It's since been published with Adam.
It's a new list.
And when did you know that, to use a baseball phrase, a pitcher, they say you can bring it when you deliver the fastball.
When did you know that you could bring it, that you were a major league quality in that,
Well, that's difficult to say.
I knew right in the very start that I was going to make it.
My mother asked me one time, after I repeated failures, what if you don't?
And I couldn't make the idea real for myself.
I was always sure that I was going to.
But the point was, I wrote a lot of short stories first.
But... No, they were mostly about the Far East.
about China and Indonesia and the area.
That's the places you visited also.
You were a seaman there too, right?
That's right.
I knocked around a good deal.
I spent a year in Indonesia.
There was East Indies there.
I was trying to write it and finally it began to sell.
It wasn't until after World War.
World War II that I really got going.
So I'd sold some stories before that.
You do, what, three novels a year or about that?
I mean, what's the current total?
How many titles?
70, 70, something?
No, it's over 80 now.
Over 80.
Yeah.
Do you ever go back and read these books?
Oh, yes, occasionally I do.
I didn't for a long time, but
Every once in a while, somebody will ask me some question, but I forgot, so I have to go back and read it.
Is there ever a fear that you're going to be covering the same territory?
I never even think about it, because there's too much territory I haven't touched to cover.
No problem about, this is a silly question you've asked, but writer's block, obviously, is not your vocabulary.
I personally think, now a lot of writers would argue with me about this, I personally think that writer's block is a totally unnecessary thing.
I think the way to get rid of writer's block is to write through it.
If you get writer's block, start writing about anything.
You don't get water until you turn the faucet on.
And you don't get ideas until you start writing.
If you use a typewriter or pen, just start doing it.
If you can't write about what you want to write about, start describing one of Cleopatra's afternoons or something.
And just start writing.
and all of a sudden the ideas start to generate.
How many do you have going at the same time?
Well, I'm usually writing one, sometimes two, and I am doing research on three or four more.
But in terms of actually writing, you're only working on one at the same time?
No, usually two.
Do you have two typewriters going?
Yes.
I have two typewriters, and I switch sometimes at lunchtime.
Sometimes I may go several days without writing one at the same time.
seven days a week.
What do you do with kicks?
Well, am I right?
I love to write.
You see, I'd rather do it than anything else.
Oh, I take time off whenever I want to.
Are you obsessive when it comes to it?
No.
Oh, I take time off whenever I want to.
My wife and kids want to go someplace to do something.
Unless I'm really into the deadline or something, or I'm in a big hurry, or the story's real hot.
Then I'll stay with it.
Sometimes I pick up a book to Colorado, where I like the Ike and the Mom.
And I have a typewriter up there, too.
You introduced the Sackett family.
Yes.
What prompted this decision?
I think you projected for 40 novels in this particular film?
Well, not only the Sacketts.
In the Three Families series, the Sacketts, Chantry, and Talam families.
I started those three families in
Through their eyes, I'm gonna tell the story of the opening up of the American frontier, the United States and Canada.
And this was partly prompted.
I had written a couple of the Sackett stories first, just for the idea of writing stories.
Although I became very intrigued in the Sackett family, and a lot of my readers did.
But, well, the idea generated, my wife and I had been married,
One day she brought home from her home, from her former home, some books that she had, and one of them was a family history, part of her family.
So glancing through it, I got to comparing notes and found out that her family and mine must have known each other several times over the past 200 years.
And I decided that was true of us, it must be true of a lot of other people.
So I decided to write these three families
and have them brush elbows a number of times in the past, and finally intermarry.
It kind of gives you a little credibility here.
That's right.
Do you alternate, say, between one of these other reasons and something else?
Yes.
I've written more of the Sackett stories now than the others.
And I started the series in the middle, unfortunately.
I started the stories in the 1860s with the Sacketts.
Part of the idea was generated also by letters I got asking about the pioneers and how they got that way.
You're said to know as much about the Indians as anyone, right?
Is that a fair statement?
I think, generally speaking, it's true.
I think there are people around in no specific tribes better than I do, but not all the Indians better than I do.
Believe me, I'm still learning.
I don't know the 50th of what I want to learn.
I've been aware of the last 10 or 12 years of what a rotten break they've had.
Bad ain't the works.
We Americans are masochistic in that respect.
We like to punish ourselves.
We like to beat ourselves with a stick.
We did nothing here that wasn't done all around the world and hasn't been done from the beginning of time.
After all, the Picts were in England, and then the Celtics came in, and then the Saxons came in, and then the Normans came in, and each one took over from the other.
Nobody cried a single tear about them all.
This is back from a hundred years ago, too.
Yeah, well, it's the same thing that happened all around the world.
What happened here was the same thing.
It just happened, and Indians took land away from other Indians.
The concept then of the noble savage, you say that's a little stereotypical too.
It is.
With the Indian, they were good and bad on both sides.
It was a two-way street.
There were a lot of noble savages, but they were only noble at certain times.
They were very un-noble at other times.
And the same thing with white men.
They're people.
And when you talk about Indians, it's like saying Europeans.
because there's vast differences between different tribes.
And they have different ways of thinking, different ideas.
The Plains tribes think somewhat similar.
But it's a different mythology.
So when you write about Indians, you write about them with sympathy, perhaps, but you temper that with... I tell the truth.
I feel sympathetic to them, yes.
But they were here, and they had this land.
And you see, a whole lot of the stereotypes about the white man and the Indian are entirely wrong.
For example, when the white men first began coming to this country, the Indians despised them.
As with anyone coming to camp out of my backyard.
That's right.
But it wasn't only that.
But the first thing the white men wanted who came here was furs.
Well, to an Indian, if he's any kind of a man, what did he trap his own furs?
What's the matter?
Is he a woman?
You know, and they kind of sneered at them.
And the first, when the first traders went up the Missouri River, met the Sioux.
The Sioux were very, very arrogant.
And they just pushed white men out of the way and paid no attention to them at all, you know.
They were nothing.
There was a journey of defeat.
And gradually, however, a situation developed where the Indian wanted a lot of things that only the white man had.
There were two ways to get it, one by trade and one by war.
And they used both methods.
Would you, now you're a man of the 20th century, but obviously you're like devoted to recreating the Vatican.
Switch the magic of it.
Would you like to go back and... No, I'd rather live now than any other time in the world's history.
This is the great period.
Everything else that's happened in the world is just preliminary to what's happening now.
Because now we're going to take off into space the greatest frontier of all of us the frontier that's endless I May write about it and I wouldn't want to go out there yet a little bit later when science fiction Yes, it has in fact I thought seriously about writing something and I was one of the first readers of science fiction
Ray Bradbury and I often compare notes because we both started reading some of the same stuff at the same time.
Like what?
Hugo Gernsback was the man who really originated science fiction.
I mean, there were science fiction stories before.
Cyrano de Bergerac, not the fictional character, but the one he's based on, the real one, was a marvelous swordsman.
He wrote a story about a voice of the moon.
And a couple were written back in the time of the ancient Greeks.
So it's not a new idea.
But science fiction as a real genre begin with Hugo Gernsback.
He started a magazine many years ago called Science and Invention.
And he published stories, something that Science Digest does now, which were about new scientific developments, but for the popular market.
And he wrote about extraordinary happenings and whatnot.
And he publicized some of the Lowell
ideas about canals on Mars and that sort of thing and about the same time he began publishing a short story or two of science fiction in this magazine and From that on it became very very popular.
So he started amazing stories.
Have you ever attempted to write outside of your field?
Well, I've written I mean other than the stories that you mentioned earlier No, but I've written sports stories and detective stories and everything
possible kind of story you can imagine.
You say there's so much you have to write.
You want to write?
Yes.
I forget the number of titles.
You're pushing 80 or you... I have 84 or 5.
I forgot most.
That number.
What are the areas that are... We're talking about how many years, I mean, actual years, do you focus on?
Is it a 20-year period?
What's the golden age of the American West?
Oh, I don't focus on one particular period.
The golden age of the American West is probably 1860 to 1900, but I don't focus on it.
I have stories in- They go back to 1600 and 1500 and something, and I've also written a, I haven't published it yet, but 15 years ago I wrote a historical novel of the 12th century, which my publisher wanted me to put aside because it thought it would interfere with the Western.
And- Except where?
In Europe and Asia.
I re-read it the other day.
It's a damn good book.
I'm going to publish it.
When are you guys going to bring it out?
Watch your mailbox.
I'm going to write other things.
For example, in the Three Families series, one of my stories is concerned with a man named Chantry.
He's one of the families.
It starts in a book called Fair Blows the Wind.
I'm gonna write a sequel to that very soon.
This book takes place, it starts on the coast of Carolina and flashes back to even in Shakespeare's time.
And I'm gonna do a sequel to that pretty quick because I deliberately left some threads hanging to pick up later.
How long does it take you to write a book?
No way to answer that because sometimes I'm thinking about them for months or years for a writer.
But the actual writing process.
I write three books a year.
Do you do a lot of revision?
I do no revision at all.
One time through the typewriter and that's it?
One time through the typewriter and then correct the typos and a few things like that.
That's it.
I do a lot of thinking beforehand, however.
Not thinking the story.
I never have my ending in sight.
I won't say never.
Once or twice I have.
But usually I do not have.
But...
I have the general trend of the story and where it's going to take place and the kind of characters I'm going to deal with.
You start with what?
A character, a subject, an idea?
I start with a situation and a couple of characters.
And take it on from there.
Hondo, for example.
A man who is fiercely independent, even to the point where even his dog is independent.
A woman asks him to feed his dog.
He's not my dog, he's his own dog.
He just travels with me.
And a woman who wanted a home above everything, and she has a very miserable home, she's going to cling to it regardless.
And an Indian chief was leading his men and the people in the war who can't win.
He knows he can't win.
And I take these three people and put them in an Indian outbreak that actually happened, and tell the story of what happened to them.
Now, most of the stories, not all, but most of the stories we hear
focus on frontier men.
How about frontier women?
Is this another subject that you feel needs... The New Cherokee Trail isn't exactly that.
The Cherokee Trail, the book that's out now, is the leading character is a woman.
And I've had strong women in many of my stories.
And they played a very important part in the West, and their story is women could be told.
Do you have trouble writing, creating female characters?
I like women.
It's easy to write about.
I mean, that's not a... I've asked that to a number of lawyers.
Somebody will admit, like Peter Benchley was, just finally did a book of a woman that he focused on young girls.
He said, I'd better start off with a young girl before I grew up into mature women.
Well, I don't think I have any trouble with it.
I've written about good women and bad women, and there's a woman who's very...
evil, you might say.
One of my interesting women, I think, is Christina in The Burning Hills.
She's a Mexican girl who's living in a sheep ranch down the Mexican border.
She's married unhappily and has come back to try and help her people in the sheep ranch.
Geraldine Page played the woman in Hondo
I haven't seemed to find enough depth of courage there to do something with it.
35, I think, is the number of yours.
Right around there.
They made movies, yeah.
They made movies.
Have you ever done original screenplays?
You always like to do a book for it.
I like to do the book.
I never done an original screenplay except for television.
I mean, just to see whether I can do it or not.
I've forgotten the story.
I'd have to come back and check if there wasn't any of any points.
I had 65.
How about the general image that we get from the movies?
Are the best stories accepted from the get of that?
Most of them are partly true, but they're overdrawn.
A lot of them are written by people who know nothing about the West.
My favorite in recent years was Jeremiah Johnson.
That was a superb painter.
And he did something there.
I've been trying to get producers and directors to do for years.
He lingered a little bit over things, didn't try to hurry through it too fast.
You lose a lot of the flavor in the West, you do that.
I'd like to, in the process of telling the West and showing, show what was happening and just see the people working, for example, and not just moving places to shoot.
I mentioned in one square, there are 25 million
Yes, I do.
I figure there's about 25 million out there who haven't read me.
How many do you figure have read you?
Oh, I don't know.
Several hundred million or several million.
I don't know.
Some people think that at least three people read every one of my books.
Some say five.
I was talking to people yesterday who said that
This fellow and his wife and his two daughters read my books and then passed them on to other people.
That often happens.
But the $25 million, you want to get it.
I want to get it.
Why is that?
I mean, you're the best-selling author of America.
Nobody ever sells enough.
And it's obviously not for the monetary consideration, it's for the consideration of revenue.
No, the monetary consideration is there, very definitely.
I'm not gonna brush that away, but I also want them to read because they can learn a lot about their country and about the people and what happened here.
You know, in the past few years, we've had a very bad press in this country and everybody's been sneering at everything American.
Americans have been sneering, nobody else has.
We've been doing the sneering ourselves and putting America down in so many ways.
I think it's all nonsense, it shouldn't happen.
And also, you have no idea
how little people nowadays know about their own history.
And people will say things that are not contradicted at all.
For example, I heard a man not too long ago on television saying, and nobody, there were a couple men on the program with him, and they didn't raise a hand or try to contradict him.
He said that the revolution was all made by people who did it for their own joy, their own purpose, and had everything to gain, nothing to lose.
George Washington was the wealthiest man in the colonies.
He had everything to lose.
not only his life, but everything he owned, for his family.
A great many of the rest of those people were very well above all and could have lost everything.
But they gambled win-win.
And there are so many stories being told around about American history that are not true.
When you come through a city like Boston, you don't make many trips here.
No.
There's probably one, isn't there?
I was here in 75.
Is this part of an attempt to go after some fragment of that 45 million?
Oh, sure.
Is this one of your least developed areas, would you say?
Well, let's say it needs more development.
Let's put it that way.
Because I get a lot of fan mail up here.
And I was on a call-in show last night, and a lot of people called in who read all my books.
No, I would like to do that, but also,
I'm going to write about this period, this area.
A four-year path that I mentioned is the only book I've touched on so far, but I'm going to do more.
Some of my family came from that.
Kind of like a scouting mission as well.
That's right.
And buying books.
I bought a lot of books.
On this trip entirely, I guess I bought over 100 books.
You know, there was a book, a famous book, What Makes Louie Lamour Right?
I have to recite the figures again.
Yes, I like to tell stories.
That's the whole thing.
I love to tell stories, and I better write than anything else I can think of.
Some people like to ski, some people like to go boating, I like to write.
Would you say you've grown as a writer?
I mean, when you look at number 80, do you think it's infinitely better than number 15 or 20?
Not infinitely better.
Better in some way.
But incrementally better, perhaps.
Yes.
What I think happens is this.
My books are at least different from each other.
And there's been a steady growth.
Sometimes a book I write will be just as good as the last one, no better, although different than the last one.
And the next one is better.
In what way is better?
in various ways, maybe my way I present my ideas better, maybe I describe something better or simpler, maybe I use better words.
There are a thousand one ways to write up and improve.
But you know it.
Yes.
I know and I read it afterwards, particularly.
And I don't think you should, or at least not for me, I don't think I should cry consciously
I think the idea is to put the idea in the back of your head that you want to do better, and then just go ahead and write.
And afterwards, read it over and see, well, how could I have done this better?
Or how could I have done it differently?
I understand you also do a number of outlaws, and I'm going to switch this tape on the other side and let's see what's going on.